Hi, guys, I'm in the AWB management console.
I'm going to go to services and go down here to analytics and this is where you can find a FENA.
Now, once you've logged into a FENA, you may see a different screen to me if you've not used it before.
I've already gone through a couple of tutorials, so I don't see the splash screen.
I just go straight in here to the query editor now actually running queries and creating tables and
databases and so on is not something you're going to need to know for the exam.
This is going a little bit beyond and it's also something which I'm not an expert at.
So to make it easy for everyone, what I just want to do is go through this tutorial here and you'll
find this.
You'll just click on this tutorial and it actually takes you for a wizard and uses a free URL to load
some data.
And so this is a good way just to have a play around and see what it is.
But again, probably beyond the scope of the exam, really, for the exam, you need to understand what
these services are and in what context they use.
So let's click on next.
And it says it's going to create a table and we're going to query some Elby log files and say the first
thing we need to do is to find the corresponding table in a FENA.
So I chose next announced says choose create a new database.
So we've got create a new database and then type default for the database.
We then need to type SLB, underscore logs for the table name, and then I'm just going to copy this
free URL here and this is where the data is going to be loaded from.
So this is some Elby log data and we can then choose next on either of these.
We now need to choose the data format, it says, to use Apache weblogs and then for the regular expression.
So this helps to sort of pass the data and understand the format that the data is in.
So we can literally just copy that paste into here and then click on next.
Now, in this case, you have to fill out the column name so it understands the data and can put the
data into columns in our database.
And we can just click on click here and it will fill those out for us.
So you can see it's created all these different columns and you can see what they relate to.
So you got the request timestamp, the name of the Elby, the request IP address and the port, the
back end IP and so on.
So these will be columns within the database and then the data will get loaded into those columns.
So let's choose next says you can actually create a partition for a Fener, but right now we don't need
to configure partitions for the EOP logs table.
So we just choose next and we can see now that it's created this query.
And it says that the above DDL statement for The Epilogues Table was generated by the entries in The
Wizard, and when we choose one query, the table will be created.
So I can just close out of this now and choose and run, and that's successful.
So we now have this table here and we can see the headers that correspond to those columns that are
going to be in the table.
So what I'm going to do now is I'm just going to click here and choose Prevue Table, and that will
create another query that selects everything from Defo and Elby logs.
So if I just choose so close that one query and what we can see now, we have a results down here and
you can see that information from the elastic load balancer logs.
So you can see the different column names that we saw before, the name of the Elby, the request IP,
the request for the backend IP and so on.
So we can see all this information is now being put into this table.
And what we could then do is run any Escorial queries we want on that data.
So that's Amazon.
Athena, let's head over now to Adewusi Glew so you can find Golu here.
I'm going to open it in a new tab and we can see that already has the Elby Logs table, which we've
just created.
So this is this is a correct time stamp.
This is the one that I just created now a few minutes ago as part of this lab.
And what I want to do is go down to the bottom here and there's a tutorials and I'm going to choose
the add crawler tutorial.
So this says you're asked to analyze arrival data for major air carriers to calculate the popularity
of departure airports month over month.
So you get flights, data for the year 2016 in CSV format stored in as free.
And then before you transform your data, you catalog its metadata in the glue data catalog.
So let's add the crawler and that's going to infer metadata from the flight logs Innisfree and create
a table in your data catalog.
So we choose next and it wants us to call it flight data crawler.
I'm just going to make life easy and copy that and make sure I get it all and choose next for this year.
Select data stores as the crawler types.
That's the default.
Now let's point the crawler to your data.
Choose the S3 data store.
So what I need to do is I need to pull out this as free URL, make sure you don't get the full stop
on the end there and I'm going to put that into the path here.
So data store is as free specified path in my account that should be in another account and then choose
next.
And you can add another data store, but we're not going to do that now in this case for you, you might
need to create this role.
I've run through this tutorial before, so I already have the role so I can actually come down and just
select the roll and choose next and we can run this on demand now, says Crullers, create tables in
your data catalog.
Tables are contained in a database.
Let's choose or create the Flight Stoebe database.
So I'm going to choose that you had a database put in the name and click on CREATE and we need to enter
flights for the prefix for the table and choose next.
So that's it.
We can then just choose finish and we can then go in and run our crawler.
So the crawler is now running.
So as it says up here, Crawler connects to a datastore, progresses through a list of classifiers to
determine the schema for your data, and then creates metadata tables in your data catalog.
So, again, a lot of this is beyond the scope of the exam, but it's just to get you into the console
and start actually using the service and it'll help you gain a little bit more understanding about what
it's all about.
Now, you can see on the left here, we are concentrating on the data catalog, but then you've got
the ETEL as well.
So this is where you can create those extract, transform and load jobs.
So that completed and you can have a look at the log files in cloud watch logs.
You can also go to tables and you can see the flight CSV table.
And if you come down to tutorials, if you want to continue now, I'm going to leave it here because
I think I've gone a bit too far already.
This is just to give you an idea of what these two services can do.
But if you want to continue and play around a bit more, you can now go and do the explore table tutorial.
And this carries on kind of where we left off because it starts exploring that flights CSFI table.
So go through that step by step and you'll learn a little bit more about.